hey everybody welcome to another episode
of health theory
i'm here with dr joel gould thank you so
much for joining me man
i have had so much fun researching you
uh it has been a wild ride i think to
say the least
so if you don't mind give people a
little bit of background your story is
is pretty interesting sure well i'm a
dentist
by by profession i'm canadian and i
practiced in canada for about 10 years
in vancouver
before moving down to los angeles and
i've been here in manhattan beach for
the last 20 years
my story is kind of interesting because
i was sick for most of my life with an
autoimmune disease called crohn's
something that wasn't that common back
in those days but
now is much more popular it's happening
a lot around the world
and um about five years ago i've been in
my location in manhattan beach for about
20 years
about five years ago i discovered by
chance that i had sleep
apnea and i was surprised by chance
well i was at a conference and part of
the conference it was in las vegas is
they said listen there's 30 of you here
we're going to give five of you sleep
studies to take to your hotel room
and bring them back down in the morning
we'll review them so out of the five
dentists that were there learning about
this whole new syndrome
um they said well three of you have it
one of you has pretty bad
and that was me and so that was sort of
my accident yeah well i'm not obese now
i was heavier
i didn't give me a range what are we
talking about when you say heavy well
i i've stopped weighing myself at about
250 pounds and i'm 60 i'll tell you
six three 230 pounds of six three is not
exactly
obese i was one of those bigger guys you
know you know it's one of those things
where
my whole life i was always trying to be
fit and i graduated from dental school
at the age of 24
and i dedicated my life to follow the
latest trends in fitness
and no matter what i did i could not
whip my body into shape and i really
tried everything
um hold on are you still suffering from
crohn's at that point
oh yeah yeah that is gnarly in fact i'm
kind of surprised you were able to put
on the weight
if you had crohn's isn't it usually that
people have a harder time like keeping
the weight on just because they they're
not able to hold anything
in yeah but unfortunately yeah that's
that's that's that's
right unfortunately yeah yeah so so it's
very common
um for it to go in both directions the
issue is that when i was 14 i started
taking prednisone
so that changed the trajectory of my
health and i started putting on weight
i actually began to gain weight in the
fifth grade or fourth grade
and um it sort of goes along with my
story it's quite common
to some of the stuff that happened to me
so um
a lot of people have severe crohn's
disease will have a hard time keeping
enough food in
um i didn't have that issue it was for
me my crohn's disease was i never had to
have surgery so it was always just mild
enough
yeah i was only hospitalized once and it
was just managing my symptoms
you know for anyone at the time so i had
a friend growing up so this would have
been in the 90s
um that was diagnosed with crohn's
disease and i remember they were just
like you have to live with it that's it
he
had parts of his bowel uh removed which
was
just god-awful i mean what he went
through was so gnarly
i remember they put him on prednisone as
well and his face ballooned up
it was crazy he was unrecognizable um
and he struggled with that for a
long time so was it just you had a
milder
case or were you doing something right
that
mitigated some of the symptoms not
really um i you know i took different
medications every couple of years i'd go
back
to whatever doctor i was seeing and see
was there any new medication
um what was the current therapy and um
you know i i cycled on and off all kinds
of medications but i always went back to
prednisone
and a medication called flagel not
really understanding that there was any
other options
and then you know all the steroids
prednisone's a steroid right yeah
steroid um flagyl is an antibiotic okay
and it's actually very good against
fungus is that making things worse or
is that targeted to bad bacteria in the
gut yeah so it's very anti-fungal so i
found that when i went on this
medication
um it's part of my crohn's protocol now
that i recommend is that
if you have active infection you need an
antibiotic because the the actual
colon itself gets infected so the
antibiotic is really useful
and i would try and stay on for two to
four weeks and it would destroy a lot of
the fungus
and that's again part of the syndrome
and because this is really a syndrome
of the gastrointestinal microbiome
that's what this is
so crohn's disease is basically like
almost all autoimmune
auto autoimmune diseases and
inflammatory chronic disease
that basically humans evolve to have
certain
sensory inputs in their body and when we
don't get them we break down and
everyone breaks down differently along
the lines of their own genetic
predisposition
so i want to give people a quick spoiler
alert before you go too deep into that
and say look
if you're thinking this is another um
gut episode which by the way i would
love doing so i can't have enough gut
episodes on here but he really has a
different take so
you're going to want to stay tuned and
hear this when i was researching you
there were multiple times that i stopped
to text people and i'm like yo
i think this is this is going to be the
solution to your problem you have to
like check this guy out
so um i i want to get back to the story
but i just want to make sure that people
know
because i've brought a lot of gut people
on my wife has struggled profoundly
with gut issues um right i almost
certainly now
hearing your story partly because of
what your punchline is java let you get
to but
um it's it is really interesting like
this is so complicated and you're
introducing yet another
um layer to this which until
you my friend i had not heard anybody
talking um
about this so uh just by way of sort of
wrapping that up so it's not just a big
tease
um what what is that the
the quick punch line and then obviously
we'll go into way detail on it
sure so the punch line is without an
evolutionary vitamin d level
you will not be able to maintain a
healthy gut microbiome no matter how
many probiotics you take even if you get
a fecal transplant
you're not going to be able to maintain
that healthy gut microbiome
and this is because this was always an
evolutionary advantage to us to change
the gut microbiome is an adaptable
seasonal organ
and when your vitamin d level is low
your body thinks it's winter
and the different types of bacterial
species will shift and
they will send different signals to the
brain so in wintertime you should be
getting a signal
by the gut brain access that to eat
sugar and carbohydrates
this is an evolutionary advantage to our
ancestors today it's bad news
now wouldn't that be the very thing that
would be hard to get though in the
winter
why would the you would think that the
microbiome would switch to that when
like fruit was plentiful
um yeah why would that be that that
feels like it should be a
lead up to winter versus a winter thing
in theory it should be
so the issue is that you have to
understand that you know humans evolved
like outdoors without clothing hats or
sunscreen and our natural state
is to have a higher vitamin d level so
um you know the
some of the thought process is that
towards the end of the season
as fruit is you know ripe and you want
to put on as much weight as you can
um there's some it just sort of depends
on what you're looking at
i think that the issue is that over the
evolutionary span of like ice ages and
and different climate conditions that
this microbiome
was one of where there was you couldn't
find game and maybe you had to dig up
tubers or so
you know sending that signal um when the
gut microbiome shifts is
you know technically an evolutionary
advantage if you're hungry all the time
um i think it's really you know i don't
know that our ancestors would have had
levels below 20
nanograms per milliliter i just don't
know that that would ever have been the
case
yeah so one thing that i found as i
embarked on my own health journey and
again like i was saying before
um a lot of this kicked off for me
because i i legitimately got to the
point where i was worried my wife was
going to die
um she had um just
she she she couldn't hold on to
nutrients i mean it was crazy her hair
was falling out her nails were breaking
she was in pain all the time we had
tried everything she had swallowed
cameras colonoscopy endoscopy
um fodmap diet like
everything it was just it was crazy and
it was getting to the point where
you start to feel helpless and so we got
we had been working with a bunch of
different doctors we finally found one
doctor who was going to do
um an immunoglobulin
transfusion and we were i think it was
the day before she was scheduled to have
her first transfusion and i was like
there's something wrong just stop
i i'm gonna embrace that i have to
learn this now and so i started just
immersing myself in the microbiome which
i didn't probably six months before that
i'd never even heard of the microbiome
and it was only because of what we were
doing at quest which um you actually
ended up being involved in which i
didn't even realize until today
um so very very interesting so we
start looking at the microbiome and then
six months later my wife ends up just
getting slaughtered by this
and so i was like okay i have to start
going into this researching become my
own expert
and as you begin to really
peel back the layers and try to
figure out what is causing the problem
you hit confusion after confusion and
it seems like you are one of a few
voices
talking about the gut full stop and then
certainly one of the you're the only
person i have heard talk about the gut
and vitamin d
um why is that
well so the first thing you have to
understand is that we have two basic
groups we have traditional medicine
allopathic doctors and then we have the
alternative medical world which is
highly variable
there's some guys who are really great
and some people who want to make you put
an ear candle so there's
a real variety okay yeah so
all this really goes back to what
happened to our medical system and it
goes way back to another
crazy canadian dentist by the name of
weston price
now price's information was mind-blowing
that at that time
um i you know what time is that the
1920s 1930s 1930s yeah
so the the current situation was the
medical paradigm was eugenics and
everyone was interested in bloodlines
and
it was very racist and this is what
adolf hitler was actually
interested in this whole eugenics
movement and at that time
this dentist first of all who not no not
a real doctor
is saying hey guys you know they're
saying well we think that the the jaws
are being destroyed and there's decay
and gum disease because of the mixing of
the races
and he says hey you know i think it's
the environment i think it's the diet
and what these people are doing and at
that time this guy must must've just
been
you know tossed aside and this
information is literally at the heart of
this pandemic
the lack of understanding of what he
said and his information
it's really been obfuscated continually
over the last 80 years and
still being hidden because ultimately
when i say
vitamin d is at the root cause of this
everyone thinks oh i'm good i drink milk
i'm fine i take a multivitamin it's in
there
in fact the rda is in there so i should
be fine
so the lack of coming through so back in
the 1930s western price does
what begins traveling around he's
looking at different peoples what what
is he finding
so his his major concern was in his
patience this is in in minneapolis he
had a dental practice
and in those days people had their teeth
pulled and had full dentures so he was
seeing
a total collapse time out time out
people were intentionally just yanking
their teeth out
they had to because there was profound
decay in gum disease
so you're young enough i'm old enough to
remember a time
where it was very normal you hit your
40s and you had your teeth taken out and
dentures
this is real what when i graduated from
dental school
i i was the only person who was doing
full mouth extractions and immediate
dentures because i was in a rural area
but this is the tail end of that whole
generation and people's mouths were
falling apart
so this was a vague memory of um
something i came across correct me if
i'm wrong that in world war ii
uh oral health was considered like a
national crisis because they were having
trouble with soldiers
that was one of those sort of passing
remarks that apparently stuck in my head
but
uh that's insane i had no idea that
people were just yanking their teeth out
yeah the the whole so basically with a
breakdown of the whole jaw on the
airwave he was seeing crowding no room
for all 32 teeth
and so he said i want to go to places
where people have great teeth and find
out what are they doing
so he literally traveled around the
world and in those days this is at a
time before
antibiotics had even been discovered so
he traveled around
the globe he went to 14 countries and
five continents and he went to visit all
of the
um communities of aboriginal people that
were still just coming into contact with
western civilization
and interestingly enough he photographed
everything
because he knew something very important
was happening and
in his time they were looking for twins
to experiment on in nazi germany
because they were believing in this
eugenic stuff so they were you know
torturing these twins
so he was looking for twins and what he
found were twins where one was following
an ancestral diet
and still living that lifestyle and one
where the other twin
was eating a western diet of refined
carbohydrates and sugar
and industrial seed oils and so westin
price had a very simple message
he said that this is what's going on
this is the root cause of a lack of room
for all 32 teeth this is the root cause
of the decay
and gum disease that he was seeing and
you know how he put that together like
pure observation
when so did he when was vitamin d
discovered
so we're talking now we're going to go
back to the industrial revolution
okay um because um ricketts
everyone's heard of ricketts it's a
disease where your bones go soft
so this is going to be the industrial
revolution in in london in glasgow
um that was where they found that
children were having deformed bones
and we're talking about the 17 you know
the the industrial revolution
1700s so it was noticed that children
who lived out in the country were much
healthier
and they literally found vitamin d2 and
they
you know they basically which is plant
vitamin d but still works on humans
so this was known so as we you know gone
to those times you need to think about
tuberculosis
and it's a very interesting disease
because tuberculosis is a bacterial
infection of the skin or lungs
and this killed millions of people in
those early 1900s
and the cure for tuberculosis was to go
to a sanatorium
where you would lie in a hospital bed in
the sun so
they figured out that yeah sunlight
alone would cure this bacterial disease
and at that time in those 1920s schlitz
beer
was the sunshine beer you can google
this to see an image of
in 1920 you'll see this tan from 1920s
and it says schlitz the sunshine beer
and there's because it has vitamin d in
it they added vitamin d to it
so this is already this is the third
time it florence nightingale
that um realized i think during world
war one that if you
put a soldier in the sun their wounds
healed more quickly
that's that's so interesting like it
feels like
vitamin d would be one of those soft
things where it's like do i notice
something do i not notice something
but for them to recognize those patterns
that that's really really interesting
okay so this is uh
we're we're back in the industrial
revolution we begin to realize there's
something happening because we're
blotting out the sun which is i think
hard for us to imagine today and you see
you get a bit of this
in say beijing where it's like you're
really diminishing the sun's ability to
reach people
um but i it's certainly hard for me to
imagine because i look out look i'm in
la i look out i see smog
but i can also lay out and get a tan so
i i've always sort of thought of the
industrial revolution as being a bit
like that
but i'm getting the feeling that people
were getting rickets that uh it was
significantly worse um so we begin to
put it together
did somebody actually draw blood and go
hey there's this thing
vitamin d so when were we guessing at
vitamin d the way that we sort of guess
at particles
yes card liveroll so weston price
noticed there was two chemical
substances that every single
aboriginal community around the world
had and they would give this to
their young people for fertility and it
was it was something
that turned out to be vitamin d3 and
vitamin k2 the k2 is something called
activator x how are they isolating it
um just biopsies this is this is all by
observation i'm saying like you're
you're a native tribe how the hell are
you
isolating um d3 and k2 like that that
seems crazy was it in a plant is it in a
fish what are like
animal foods animal foods and they would
but but they're doing some process to
to distill it so that it was
basically cod liver oil that they were
that that
was a substance that's how [__] do
humans figure this [__] out this is like
oh by the way if you cut a
blowfish this way you die and if you cut
it this way it's delicious
it's like trial and error what how many
this is crazy so
do we have any information on how they
figured that out or that's just sort of
lost to the ages
well so really the the coolest part
about west end price is this is really
the time
pre-modern science and so he's noticing
this just by observation alone
no lab studies the vitamin d hormone was
not discovered
until much later until michael holik who
is like the granddaddy of all vitamin d
who's still
active in the scene he isolated this and
said hey this is a molecule
and that's when we finally knew what it
was we knew that sunlight was
instrumental for health
because you know throughout all of
history um
you know this was known um the different
you know the greeks knew that sunlight
was very useful
for both mental and hippocrates believed
in heliotherapy
you know they named it after the god of
sun helios and
he used to prescribe heliotherapy for
both physical and mental health
so we have to understand that when we
were tribal people this is you know a
long time ago
the wisdom of the tribe was gained over
many thousands of years through trial
and error
and it's so interesting that they would
give these two
ceremonial foods to for fertility and
they are literally vitamin d3 and
vitamin k2
and just by observation those two things
the d3k2
is still at the core of what's playing
the world right now which i find
kind of fascinating and sad and
mind-blowing we're all in lockdown
because this information was was
subverted 80 years ago
by the powers that be the john kellogg
the rockefellers
the powers that be that produce cereal
and you know that type of stuff
why why would they give a [__] well
i don't know how well you've looked into
some of that stuff but they wanted i
know a bit about kellogg and his like um
he didn't want guys masturbating or
whatever
uh but other than that i don't know a
lot
so but what d3 just what gives you
what you need to make the sex hormones
which then makes you feel randy like
what well thank you so his his issue was
that he didn't want people eating meat
he and some other heart of the vegan
movement because it made you horny
made you immediately is there something
real to that sure because
nutritionally meat's very healthy for
you and
a vegan vegetarian diet technically is
not if i'm offending anyone
i'm sorry but eating the the
whole foods that we evolved on is what
makes us our best version of ourself
when you start
you know this is back in the 1920s and
30s that john kellogg is packaging the
cereal
and you know there's got he's got his um
uh you know
uh competition and they're just
packaging sugar and that's what this is
so this industry
they were not interested in any natural
natural therapies
the food industry and the pharmaceutical
industry is the petrochemical industry
this is a message they don't want to get
out there the question is
who really knows how powerful vitamin d
is and i can answer that big pharma
knows
they've tried apparently over 85 times
to a vitamin d analog
no one is interested in investigating
these natural substances because they
cannot be patented
doesn't mean that we shouldn't be
focused on them and that's really what
it is
vitamin d got shoved to the side as did
heliotherapy as did tesla's information
as did everything the petrochemical
industry
basically said no we don't want any of
this stuff this is all gone
and now really fast why do you call big
pharma petrochemicals
well if you look into the origin of who
this is
right now we have monsanto which was a
poison company
purchased by bear okay which is a
pharmaceutical company
so now we have the company that created
poisons now has gone into
food and the food chain and controlling
the world's food
um and they they've created this
particular poison that's in
everything now and the company bear
called what
are you talking about glyphosate
glyphosate yeah i know people maybe
don't don't either want to know i didn't
care about glyphosate
i never wanted to be an environmental
crusader but what do you mean people
don't want to know about glyphosate
well you know i think people hear that
oh there's pesticides on your food they
don't really know
just how profoundly this one thing is
affecting not just
canada and america but the world this is
a poison
that was basically discovered this is a
toxic chemical
and this company monsanto they changed
into
an agro company and now they've been
bought by by bear but
the the petrochemical industry is the
pharmaceutical industry
that's the they're one if you start to
go back the medications are
pharmaceutical
they're oil based so these are all
unnatural chemical medications
they really go back to that time i was
surprised to be thinking in those terms
but you know things have changed much
over the years and you know
what may have been a cohesive conspiracy
back in the 1920s
by a lot of those groups has now just
you know changed into who's making money
all right and so let's let's go there's
a lot of points in here and i want to i
want to get to them because they're
they're all really interesting and it's
part of what makes your message
so internally coherent
okay so um you've got in the beginning
you've got these guys that
i i'm gonna paint it with an emotional
brush but i want you to stop me because
i actually don't know
virtually anything about this so if i
end up being
unrealistically generous or whatever let
me know i tend to be
um i'm whatever the antithesis of
conspiratorial is that's me
i i can look dead in the eye of a
conspiracy and it just doesn't feel like
a conspiracy to me it just feels like
people being stupid or greedy um but if
this is like
there's something more sinister going on
let me know so you've got this
super religious guy um who doesn't want
guys masturbating or eating meat
because it is somehow i'm sure against
god
so he's got his reasons for wanting you
to eat graham crackers
um so he's going down that path which i
will grant him
he may like it may have come from a
beautiful place like i want to save
everybody um and then you've got the
who was the other person that you said
is coming into this and they wanted you
to not know what vitamin d you
rockefeller somebody else you mentioned
well so this this all goes like this
strange because this is what's coming
out right now with this conspiracy
theory stuff
is that there are power apparently
powerful families who
made their money in oil who wanted just
to control
and of course they wanted to make money
because ultimately people do things for
money
but the powers that be at that time they
wanted to control the narrative and the
narrative was one of relative around
food or vitamin d
around health so you're saying this is a
battle between
epigenetics and genetics yep that's
correct
interesting so you've got the
psychopathy of people going down the
eugenics route
they think that at least as it
intersects with teeth and diet they
think this is an
issue of mixing um genetics
and you've got our boy weston price
going around the world saying no this is
an epigenetic phenomenon i don't know if
we had that word back then or not
but he's saying no no this is an
interaction of genes and the environment
and where
modernity is moving us so far in one
direction did he have his finger
on the sun or he just knew these two
things that people are isolating have
something to do with it
yeah so that's a good question i've
never heard him
discuss actual sun exposure but his
focus was it was so fascinating was
vitamin d3 vitamin k2 those two
substances and he said
he was saying what they fix your jaw
they fix your teeth or did he know there
was something way bigger going on
because ultimately we're going to bring
this all back around to the gut and
all kinds of crazy [__] you you i once
heard you call
um sun expo you may have said vitamin d
and k2 are the panacea but you either
said that or you said sun exposure's a
panacea
and i like panaceas that would be
amazing i want this to be
that effective um but first let's let's
continue down that path real fast
sure so this is what weston this was his
message and so i want people to
understand
so i'm a canadian dentist and just to
give you a history so when i found out
who weston price was i only found out
five years ago
i've been a dentist now for 30 years
weston price is not taught in canadian
dental school or american dental school
when i found out who he was and i
ordered his book online
and this is a book with photographs
showing teeth and the jaws
i was alarmed that my country canada and
the dental school system
would not have brought this gentleman
forward and he had some very simple
rules he said
these are the two substances that you
should have in abundance
and they come from whole foods they come
from organ meats
um and this other food comes from raw
dairy and this is
basically a green a cow city green grass
they produce a high level of vitamin k2
and he said do not eat
industrial seed oils do not eat
processed carbohydrates
and sugar and he didn't have any studies
he's just saying look man i traveled
around the world
i'm telling you if you want your and i'm
assuming he was focused on
teeth if you want to focus on general
health because
it wasn't just he did he have other
metrics like when he's taking the photos
are they primarily of jaws and teeth or
are they
of all kinds of things skin quality or
whatever a little bit of both and you'll
see you know anyone who wants to look it
up is kind of mind-blowing because i
tell this to high-level medical doctors
and dentists and they're like oh
whatever
i say just read the first 30 pages and
he goes into the detail he said this is
just by
this is only by observation there were
no tests but that's and you know he's
been trashed since then saying well
he doesn't have proper research this
recognition
of these conditions is really profound
and here we are
more than 80 years later what is every
oil when you eat anything that's fried
these are industrial seed oils to this
day
every processed food that you are eating
unless you know where the food chain
came from
has these toxic chemicals is this a
glyphosate problem or is there something
in here
okay so this whoa did you just say
deuterium yeah so
now now we're really getting into some
some complicated [__] so
um talk what is deuterium okay
talk to me there's something about water
in all of this yes if i'm not mistaken
so i learned about doterra about quest
nutrition i was going to say we we had
talked about this back at quest
i honestly it was so complicated uh i
was
i don't remember it well so so bring it
back just for a second to western price
so weston price published
all these pictures which was very
unusual medical text did not have
photographs
and he is quoted as saying i have the
use of photographs
very liberally in my book it said that a
photograph is worth a thousand words of
text
and that's in the 1930s so when i
found this out i was like well i want to
finish what this guy started this
message is so simple
what he found changed my life and his he
found the root cause
of modern chronic illness and i said
i want to bring you give me the root
cause of modern illness in a single
sentence
deuterium and glyphosate overdose that's
it so those those are the two
those are our villains and so the reason
what i did i created cartoon characters
so even more than vitamin d i actually
thought i was setting you up to say
something about vitamin d
uh but i want the truth whatever that
may be so deuterium and glyphosate
during glyphosate so deuterium is what
makes sugar
high fructose corn syrup and even fruit
bad for you
so to make this really simple i created
cartoon characters
where you can see so hydrogen is the
simplest element it has one electron and
one proton
hydrogen has three isotopes one of them
that's natural is deuterium deuterium is
a natural substance found
everywhere on this planet it's found in
water it's found in food it's even found
in the air
this is a normal part of nature when we
process
foods like sugar or grains
grains are loaded with deuterium and no
animals on this planet or humans on the
planet did not evolve to eat those foods
so that's why
um you know grain corn and soy
these foods are not healthy to us
primarily because they are
loaded with deuterium they're not the
natural naturally they're humans yeah
naturally
okay so it's not like we gm mode them to
have more deuterium or anything like
that
it's not from acid rain it's just
naturally did you
over the years we did gmo them we would
to include more deuterium
yes by okay i would assume by accident
it's just we were optimizing for
something else and it happened to
do don't you want the biggest fastest
growing sweetest fruit
okay so that seems like it makes sense
but
this is a mistake because we didn't know
that this subatomic particle
i call deuterium father time because
this is technically what
ages us the the amount of deterrent that
builds up in your body over time
is technically what aging is and so
these are because it's free radical
help me understand that no it's not so
um you've heard of carbon dating
um so carbon has a molecular weight of
12. carbon 14 is an
isotope of carbon now when isotope
differs
only by the number of of
um neutrons okay so there's only three
subatomic particles electrons protons
and neutrons
so when you add extra neutrons you
create an isotope
okay and if you add enough neutrons that
becomes radioactive
so those neutrons are very powerful now
carbon 12 to carbon 14 is not
much of a difference in molecular weight
hydrogen
when you add one neutron you double the
weight
and that one thing becomes profound
because we utilize hydrogen
as fuel in our bodies because of its
chemical structure hydrogen has a
molecular
of one it's one electron which is almost
weightless and one proton
which carries all the weight so this
hydrogen
is tossed around everywhere in your body
in your mitochondria through the
electron transport chain
and we have this system where we produce
energy in our mitochondria
and when we get too much deuterium
coming into the mitochondria
it actually breaks the mitochondria's
ability to produce energy
and that breakage is related to the
production of cancer
so this deuterium was normal so we do
get a certain amount of germ that comes
into our bodies
but through farming and through the
advancement of what we thought
was progress we increased this food
that's not
natural this finely chopped up sugar and
flour that overwhelms our body
then we're eating you know all day long
snacking throughout the day
so we're constantly attacking our
mitochondria with this deuterium
so prior to processed foods you would
not ever get a deuterium overload
because the deuterium
in the environment that you're in is
tied to the sunlight
which starts to get complex but um
that's why i have cartoon characters
so basically prior to processed foods
you could not overdose on deuterium
because it just wasn't in the
environment we needed to
bring these new modern foods that
started 12 000 years ago
um ford you know same reason why the
egyptians were unhealthy they ate a lot
of grain
so this extra neutron we know they were
unhealthy
i've never heard that before oh really
yeah so you can do some research on it
um a lot of the kings a lot of the
egyptian kings had you know all kinds of
issues
they were eating basically grains they
were eating the foods that we
came up with that were never our food so
where deuterium comes into play
is that this gets into why grass fed is
healthy
grass-fed grass finish anything that's
that eats grass
is low in deuterium because grass itself
is low in deuterium
and that's the food that humans evolved
to eat so we evolved to eat ruinance we
we
evolved to eat things that ate grass
correct correct
so feeding cows on any livestock grain
or soy
is bad it's bad news because those
animals start to incorporate much more
deuterium into their body
and so anything that has a high level of
deuterium technically
ages you it's very hard on your body so
that extra neutron
starts to weigh everything down and that
you know we get into a little more
sciency
discussions but every every part of your
body has hydrogen attached
we use a lot of hydrogen hydrogen can be
replaced by deuterium
it's natural so water even comes in
three varieties h2o
hdo and d2o d2o
is heavy water what yeah this is this is
this is and i learned this at quest
nutrition just so you know
that's so interesting um okay
this is crazy so that's deuterium
uh we have just for anybody that's
sticking with us man rock
rock do this it um i think it's
important and we'll we'll simplify it
again by the end
uh i've heard you give very simple
instructions before and so
um i'll make sure to take us there but
um
so if if our two villains are deuterium
and glyphosate let's just put a period
on deuterium really fast so
um in in making things uh grow
bigger plumper juicier sugarier yummier
um we are unintentionally adding
deuterium to it so if you think about
if you cross breed wolves for
temperament you get a cocker spaniel
um so to give people an idea there's
there's always these things that go
along with it's actually really
interesting like if you look at the way
animals are bred and how you can predict
certain features purely by breeding for
temperament
um certain other things will change so i
can totally get how
we end up adding something whether it's
deuterium or anything
how we end up sort of unintentionally
adding something because we're aiming at
something else
okay so industrial these are the
industrial seed oils
they took these oils that were the waste
product of farming
and they hydrogenate them but they put
in more deuterium so that's why
is that what hydrogenation is is uh yeah
adding adding hydrogen
but there's they don't they don't add
pure hydrogen they're adding a lot of
deuterium
so being unaware of this this is not
known material
and this takes us back to um why is
omega-6
oils bad for you okay because they're
higher in deuterium
so does it matter is it out of balance
with omega-3
is problematic well so why are we
getting all those omega-6s
they're coming from these processed seed
oils and what makes those
so the the problem is that the more
omega-6 we get
the more our cell membranes are made up
of this
unhealthy stuff that has all these extra
deuterium can you name what are some
common seed oils because
i think people are eating seed oils left
right and center they just don't know
they're called seed oils
canola oil corn oil peanut oil
anything other than coconut oil
avocado oil and olive oil those are the
oils that are low in deuterium and this
gets back to
why is it so grass-fed animals why is
the ketogenic diet healthy
and it goes back to deuterium and
glyphosate why do people have a profound
improvement of their health when they
give up processed carbohydrates and go
to a more
go to a more high fat diet and that is
at the core of what type of fat
it has to be a natural grass-fed organic
fat
or else it's loaded in deuterium and
this is at the core again
every processed food that you buy is
loaded with this with deuterium and
glyphosate and these toxic seed oils
and this was a problem that started way
back you know in the 1920s and again
observable to to somebody who was really
into it sort of
when you think about what dentistry is
what we do is i'm
i've been in my location for 20 years i
see patients every six months
lying down with this light shining in
their mouth and i have
time to spend with them i know their
families i'm now a primary healthcare
physician to these people because when
they go to their clinic it's a different
doctor they wait in line
they get a prescription i know these
people i see all their different
generations so i have different powers
of observation
based on what i do you know dentists
have a very unusual job
you know i also have the experience of
what i went through personally to be
able to put these pieces together
because when i started to get sick and
the the sleep apnea came out of left
field but i was having other issues i
was having anxiety and depression and i
was grinding my teeth
day and night and bruxism is a vitamin d
deficiency clenching
is grinding where's the collision so do
we have three villains so we've got
deuterium we've got glyphosate which we
still have to get to and then we have
um deficient vitamin d well
so when we're adding glyphosate and so
deuterium if you eat enough deuterium
your ability to make vitamin d in
sunlight is decreased you get something
called deuterated
cholesterol so for people who don't know
vitamin d
is made from cholesterol in our skin and
uvb radiation
will transform a molecule of cholesterol
7-d hydroxy cholesterol but if there's a
lot of deuterium in your body turns it
into
vitamin d yes correct it turns into
vitamin d
but if there's a lot of deuterium in
your body for eating a lot of processed
foods
the sunlight itself will have a harder
time breaking that one chemical bond
because of deuterium's extra neutron
so and technically that's what aging is
so back in the old days before
glyphosate and here's where it comes
together with vitamin d
when you say that's what aging is do you
mean that's what aging of the skin
is or that's what aging of every cell is
every cell every cell yeah we're born at
certain parts per million in deuterium
and what happens is the deuterium will
exchange for hydrogen
and this is a known reaction to
physicists and chemists around the world
so when you google deuterium it's very
very common but they're using this
to gauge rates of reaction because what
about telomeres
how does this all add up because what i
would have said prior to you making that
statement
is aging is where your cells have
divided too many times your telomeres
have frayed like a shoelace
and the cells can no longer divide
intelligently and you basically
um all the things you think of as old
age the organs beginning to shut down
loss of muscle mass skin sagging
uh on and on and on that's because your
cells
are or the telomeres have frayed and the
cells are no longer
intelligently dividing so telomeres i
don't believe they're a reliable marker
because when your vitamin d level is low
you do not transcribe or produce the
enzyme
telomerase telomerase will repair your
telomeres
and you can just do a simple google
search type in pubmed telomeres and
vitamin d and you'll see several studies
that show
that when you have an evolutionary level
of vitamin d you will make more of this
enzyme i didn't make you define that the
first time you said it but now i'm going
to have to
what do you mean by uh an evolution
level what do you call it evolutionary
evolutionary level yeah yeah
the level that a human would have as a
hunter-gatherer
living outdoors which would be what's
the number
um in my opinion it'd be on the low end
on the high end maybe or the normal and
50 but at the end of the summer it can
go up to 80 90 even 100 the highest
if i wanted to live forever yep what
number would you tell me to strive for
i'd be in the 60 to 80 range that that
don't 81
stop it tom no 81's too much lots of
flexibility lots of flexibility so is
there i know
if you supplement i know that you can
cause problems you can overdose
um you're never going to overdose by
being in the sun but i'm just curious
you know most things have a point of
diminishing returns
is there a level that is too high
so vitamin d gets so yes of course
there's a level that's too high
different genetic populations will have
different levels it also depends on
your entire vitamin d exposure your life
if you have been vitamin deficient you
got a lot of catching up to you'll use
up more vitamin d vitamin d is a
metabolic hormone
and you think of it this way is that
prior to
modern electronics in the old days if
you were more active
you would be active outside you'd be
either hunting or gathering or going
outside
so the extra exercise and effort you put
in
in in using up more energy would be
supplemented by getting more sunlight
now here we are staying out of the sun
and you are in your basement with your
wi-fi and bluetooth and your
on your your treadmill and you're
exercising you're using up your vitamin
d but you're not replacing that energy
this is you know humans evolved we're
animals we're highly evolved animals
and taking those signals is what changes
everything so we literally utilize
sunlight for so much more than vitamin d
it literally charges the water in our
bodies in the same way that plants take
in the energy the sun for photosynthesis
all right so i need you to commit is is
the third villain
uh vitamin d deficiency or does that not
rank as high as deuterium and glyphosate
so vitamin d is the thing vitamin d
deficiency causes
aging so if you want to stay healthy you
want to obtain a vitamin d level so back
in the old days
before processed foods you would get
older and older and as deuterium would
build up in your skin
your ability to make vitamin d would be
reduced slowly over time
at a certain point you would start to
choke in your sleep
which is called sleep apnea and then you
would die a death of natural causes
which is dying in your sleep now we're
seeing this happen people running
out of vitamin d not ever having enough
starting to have sleep apnea choking in
their sleep so people are dying of
strokes and heart attacks
people are dying of chronic inflammatory
diseases
because sleep apnea which is a lack of
vitamin d
is causing all these issues if you're
not sleeping properly you are not
repairing and regenerating
simple as that so the lack of vitamin d
though has multiple causes you've got
building up deuterium in your body and
you've got lack of
sun yeah so when vitamin d controls the
microbiome that microbiome is providing
the chemicals to get you into normal
sleep
it's providing all kinds of different
chemicals when the d level goes down and
you can't ever get it back up again
you are going to die that's it and you
can even you know there's
i have studies posted where um you know
how this is linked to aging
so chronic inflammatory diseases there's
lots of different you know there's
what causes aging there's the free
radical theory right so over time
free radicals basically take their toll
on your body
and cause inflammation vitamin d runs
the anti-inflammatory system
but this is the most profound thing
vitamin d regulates your gut microbiome
which regulates sleep if you're not
sleeping you're not repairing
and then you break down and really
that's at the heart of the syndrome
if that makes sense so the villains are
totally vitamin d now now how does
vitamin d deficiency relate to
glyphosate glyphosate destroys
the enzymes in your liver and in your
body that activate vitamin d
and this is information probably being
spoken about activate what do you mean i
thought it was happening when the sun
hits the skin and it breaks
off electron or something i forget
exactly what words you use
yeah so it breaks one chemical bond um
cholesterol
is your body's starter molecule your
body makes everything out of this
building block
so when you take cholesterol so should i
stop taking a statin
no i'm kidding i don't understand
so what happens is that the vitamin d
itself that's called cholecalciferol
that's vitamin d that you take
and when you take that it has to go to
your liver that's b3 you're saying
yep so d3 itself is cholecalcifer it has
to be hydroxylated or has to be
activated
this happens primarily in your liver
although it can happen in other cells in
your skin in your lungs
it probably doesn't matter but i'm
curious enough to ask when you say
activated what at a cellular level what
are we talking about
so to be so when you when you like so if
you basically
it becomes an active molecule so it can
do work in your body
what's the difference though between an
inactive molecule and an active molecule
so the the amount that your doctor
measures is a 25 ohd
so that is the activated form of vitamin
d so you take vitamin d it's not active
has to go into your liver to be
activated by a specific set of enzymes
called
the cytochrome p450 enzymes and they
put one hydroxyl group onto a position
at the 25
position in this that's why they call it
25 hydroxy vitamin d
that's your body doing the first
activation step that's the storage form
that circulates throughout your body
that's the level that your doctor
measures no one is measuring the actual
actual vitamin d in your body
so in places where there's a lot of
glyphosate
this stuff destroys these enzymes and
that's why i created cartoon characters
of these enzymes because when i say
enzyme you know you don't really have a
good idea
but these are troops of enzymes i drew
them as robot submarines they took take
two things and join them or pull them
apart
to give you an idea an enzyme is
something it's like the worker bee of
your cell
so because glyphosate is such an
aggressive poison
it actually kills the enzymes that
activate vitamin d so you could be
outside
you could be taking a lot of vitamin d
but your body can't use it and when you
go to the doctor your doctor goes
your vitamin d level is low and if
you're eating foods that are high in
glyphosate oatmeal
beans things that people think are
healthy but are loaded with glyphosate
these are the people who show up at my
office and they have very low levels of
vitamin d because they have
they may have the building block of it
but their body cannot activate it and so
that's why
glyphosate and deuterium are such
villains because they both
decrease your body's ability to take in
the energy of the sun
and vitamin d literally is the power of
sunlight in our bodies and that's what
keeps us young
literally why because vitamin d
regulates autophagy
vitamin d regulates the
anti-inflammatory pathway vitamin d
regulates the transcription of all kinds
of different chemicals
that keep us healthy and young and
vitamin d regulates sleep
i think it's important to tell people
especially the ones that are watching
right now he's 85.
so you can see how well no but uh
yeah that is crazy thank you that
actually um clicks a lot of things into
place
so now um who let's get into
prescriptive behavior so just on that on
that note so when we see countries like
brazil
or india and they're having this high
reaction to to covid
these people are have suppressed vitamin
d levels because they're literally
eating this stuff um brazil is loaded
with glyphosate the the
the industry there is massive so people
who are literally
should have high vitamin b levels they
don't have those because
this chemical is destroying their body's
ability to activate it and
there's what's even worse is there's a
second step where the vitamin d gets
activated to the active form the 125
point um and that form is the active
part that actually goes to your dna
to create different enzymes so an
inability to do that second activation
is also caused by glyphosate so these
two things this determine glyphosate
this is literally
um breaking down us these just these two
villains
um you know on their own they're
dangerous separately but they combine
because glyphosate will literally tear
open
the cell membranes and deuterium will be
able to actually damage more
so that sort of you know yeah so earlier
you said that
from a healthy diet perspective we're
better off eating
meat you didn't say exclusively but
versus a vegan diet
what if glyphosate were out of the
picture could we get
everything that we needed from a vegan
diet if it was
you know organic and
you know raised in the or grown in the
perfect way
uh you're shaking your head so what
what's missing from a vegan diet
nutrient density so if you're gonna be
on a vegan diet and you're not gonna
have any processed foods
to be a healthy vegan it's doable but
you have to supplement
and supplement and supplement with these
processed foods anytime you chop up a
food
you're giving your body something it was
never designed to have we're used to
chewing food
and we don't have we never have these
processed little chopped up bits
think about your colon and the
absorption this is a completely
different level of absorption when we
have these unnatural foods
even when you eat fruit there's fiber in
there now you're drinking juice
it's completely toxic it has deuterium
and glyphosate
and it's completely unnatural you don't
get the slow absorption of the sugar
from the fiber of the fruit
so i believe that you can probably
survive as a vegan i think it's too hard
to know
no matter how healthy you eat to be able
to get rid of that glyphosate that no
one's testing for
and that's why i think a lot of vegans
get very sick is because they've been
basically dosing themselves with this
toxin
at the same time as they are not having
these
nutrient-dense high-fat high-protein
foods that we evolved to eat
we only i can hear vegans in the
comments
screaming right now this [__] here's
another guy
a you're destroying the planet [__] you
very much
and uh i'm super healthy i went i
switched to being vegan
uh from eating meat a year ago i've
never felt better in my life
um what do you say to that i've heard
people say like hey
a lot of people get some good benefit in
the beginning but over time it becomes
problematic
um or something else what what's your
take on that
well my taken this is where it comes
down to that extra neutron if you eat a
vegan diet
it's higher in deuterium period okay all
of those foods
they have a higher level of deuterium
does plants in general have a higher
level of deuterium starches or starches
so what do you
how are you going to get the nutrition
into your body our bodies were designed
to eat
meat now you don't have to you could eat
seafood you don't have to eat red meat
and organs and that but
the idea that you know vegan is it's not
a match for our body you can do it
but you'd have to be supplementing
everything if you're what is it what do
you see in our body that makes you say
that it's not a match
because people will show images of like
uh wolves teeth and be like
that's a carnivore we don't have teeth
like that mr dentist nobody should know
better than you
look at us we were meant to just grind
up some grass here's what we have we
have our brain
when we figured out we could trick an
animal to
running off a cliff and then go and get
it that's the
origins of hunting you know you probably
heard that we used to go and after the
carcasses were left we go and snap the
bones open
and we would get the the marrow and
that's what was the first profound
change to get us away from being
herbivores
so we never needed those teeth we have
our brains our brains are much sharper
than any animal's teeth
because we can use thought processes and
knees that's good i like that
yeah and to any vegetarian or vegan who
doesn't like this
this is what i say i'm 53 years old and
i was sick for most of my life
i watched my parents and what they did i
watched what they ate
i watched the medications they took and
i saw how they died
and you can fool yourself and you can
you can be you know doing this and
thinking it's great and you can even
feel good
but you can't fool mother nature or your
body if you take in
they both die to pancreatic cancer
correct okay so what what is the
connection between cancer
and our our three villains so deuterium
and glyphosate destroy the mitochondria
and that's why i have marty mitochondria
this is where everything you know
i you know people can think of think of
your body as a computer
okay so you have your your brain is the
cpu
and the different parts of your brain to
the software programs
and your brain will send down signals
through your nerves
all right it doesn't matter how healthy
your body is
if that signal coming out of your brain
isn't strong enough
your body's going to work properly
imagine that you you build this
beautiful house with all this wi-fi and
bluetooth and all the great stereo
surround system
and you plug it into the power grid and
the power is coming in is is weak and
and wobbly and none of your appliances
work right so you keep on calling out
the repairman
to fix these things but ultimately
they're not working because the amount
of power coming in
isn't what these things were designed to
have
so all of life is centered around the
production of energy
second by second your mitochondria is
the most important part of your body
this is literally your metabolism this
controls
everything including aging mitochondria
apoptosis program cell death your
mitochondria because it's the power
source
and so what happens is that when these
mitochondria
start to produce less energy everything
in your body starts to suffer
and what we're looking at allopathic
medicine is doctors look at all these
breaking down body parts
they're not understanding the core of
how we actually work
they need to understand that number one
your mitochondria is the most important
thing
number two your microbiome is regulating
and interacting
with your brain and all the rest of your
body not understanding this
is a profound problem with our current
medical paradigm
and the idea that vitamin d deficiency
is really at the core of this
is just going to go over people's heads
because it doesn't seem like it could be
important
and the reason that i'm such a big
proponent of this vitamin d is that
people don't understand that i lived as
a sick person my whole life and when i
raised my vitamin d level
from a level below 20 to 80 every single
thing that was wrong
melted away and you know people say well
you're crazy you think vitamin d
deficiency causes everything
and no not everything but an awful lot
because of what it controls it controls
the gut microbiome
and it controls your sleep how does it
control the gut microbiome
same way it's supposed to control all
the barriers of your body you produce
antimicrobial proteins
and this is your body's main defense
against any pathogen whether it's covet
19 or a bacterial lung infection
that's why people who went to lie in the
sun who had tuberculosis got better
they raised their vitamin d level their
gut microbiome came back
and their body was able to produce all
of these chemicals both
in the barrier cells and through the gut
microbiome you got microbiome
is making all these different chemicals
ninety percent of
your serotonin is made in your gut
microbiome so
this is something that we relied on
forever and not understanding
that a microbiome is being destroyed
it's being destroyed by glyphosate is an
antibiotic
it kills the diversity of the gut
microbiome it kills the diversity
of your lung microbiome your skin
everything you name it this is you know
very toxic chemical
now i have a feeling that um in there
was the answer that now i'm going to ask
for but i want to recontextualize it
because you you started to
um say something and i i interrupted you
uh you said when
um vegans come to me and they have a
problem with what i'm saying i tell them
this i watched how my parents died
and then i went in on the parents and
then we sort of decontextualized it from
the vegan thing so i just want to bring
it back the decisions that you make
every day of your life the choices that
you make
all start to add up over time if you're
and you're a vegan and you're happy and
healthy that's great but
i've been a clinician for 30 years
and i've only ever been in two real
different locations as 10 years in
canada
and then 20 years in this location i see
people age i have patients who get sick
get cancer
and die so i see this process of aging
so just because you're doing something
when you're 24 25 that feels right
you are literally can be damaging your
body so that as you get older
the systems that we have break down so
like that's why i say you know you can't
fool mother nature you can't fool no
matter what you do that extra neutron if
you're taking in too much deuterium
it's destroying your body it's getting
incorporated into your enzymes
so enzymes are long strings of protein
that have hydrogen
when more deuterium is replacing
hydrogen those enzymes start to warp
because of the extra weight that
deuterium is twice as heavy as hydrogen
and it resonates heavy and slow and it
starts to warp your dna
and break down your actual dna your dna
is
a surrounded by sugar that sugar starts
to get deuterated so the actual sugar
the hydrogen gets replaced with
deuterium
and it starts to bend and warp your dna
that's why this is aging
and so that's why when people are
overloading with sugar
and high fructose corn syrup they're
literally prematurely aging themselves
so by following this this may seem good
now but
over many years this lifestyle it's not
sustainable
if you were really great at substituting
all kinds of stuff you could probably
stay relatively healthy
but the question is what makes you think
that farming isn't more destructive for
this planet
than having regenerative small organic
farms where ruminants
and different types of crops are moved
around the answer is well we had
megafauna way up north there's all kinds
of massive
animals that this planet can support
much more meat
much more meat production than it can
farm farming is so destructive all
you're doing is you're taking away from
that soil year after year
how is that ever going to produce proper
healthy
nutrient-dense food it isn't because
after a certain number of years
you got to put on nitrogen fertilizer
that's not natural that's not healthy
and the real issue with farming is that
mother nature doesn't work in isolation
monocrops and planting one crop is wrong
because we need
the collaboration of the microbes in the
soil just like your gut microbiome
is controlling your health the soil's
microbiome is controlling what
grows from it and when you use
glyphosate or do monocrops you're
killing
the soil you're not replacing it when
you have an animal
eating green grass which is what it was
designed to eat
it's eating it's walking around tramping
the grass its waste products are being
incorporated into the soil
increasing the carbon soil is a huge
carbon sink
if everyone was doing regenerative
farming
you know who knows what the greenhouse
gases would be but there is no
the the the type of stories oh
cow farts that is causing methane this
is all nonsense
you know farming is unnatural 12 000
years ago we stayed put and became
farmers
and we thought that was a good idea it
wasn't it was a mistake because we
didn't know we didn't have an electron
microscope
we didn't know what deuterium was it's
as simple as that
farming was a big mistake for our health
and it still is
and if you want to be healthy and live a
long healthy life
you have to follow mother nature's rules
we
evolved from the dirt of this planet
under her conditions under through the
energy of the sun
in this connected world where this
fungus and
molds and all these different things
that are natural we're supposed to be in
that environment
that's what keeps us healthy this
sanitizing your hands and stuff this is
not good this is not going to end well
it's not who we are
dude amazing uh i
have to press you on k2 um i get all the
sun
in the world i live in los angeles
during covet i've never been more tan in
my life
uh i was having a meeting earlier with
my wife by the way who happens to be my
business partner
but you know in in my underwear um and
that's amazing but you're freaking me
out that there's a balance issue with k2
and i don't know
[__] about it um i eat the
i eat primarily meat so i do have some
vegetables but i'm not hardcore
i do have some fruit but i'm not
hardcore um 80 of my calories probably
come from
grass-fed beef um am i getting k2
somewhere uh are you eating fermented
food products
zero okay that's where you get k2 from
all right okay so basically i'm i'm on
death's door
no no i need to i need to do what here
so this goes back to the same thing so
what is osteoporosis why is it
when we get older our bones get brittle
it's because this information
is not known vitamin k2 is not known and
where this comes down to is doctors are
still doing this in my neighborhood
i'm on the west side of los angeles they
give
elderly women calcium and vitamin d
thinking well vitamin d makes you low
calcium so that should do it
it's dangerous you don't want to take
calcium with vitamin d
you get a lot of calcium if you're
eating a balanced diet dairy or
green leafy vegetables but vitamin k2
manages the calcium so vitamin d brings
the calcium into your body now it gets
into your arteries
into your skin and starts to build up
why because k2
grabs that calcium and puts it into the
matrix of bone
so how we evolved especially like summer
and winter in the summer when the grass
is green
you get a lot of k2 the sun is high you
have a lot of vitamin d
and you bring in all this calcium gets
put into your bones so your bone density
goes way up
in the winter the grass is brown very
little k2 because k2 comes from green
growing grass
and no sun no vitamin d so your body
will literally go into your bones and
pull that calcium out
i call it your personal bone bank so why
am i not getting k2 from grass-fed
beef so you probably are getting some
should i eat kale so fermented stuff
freaks me out i'd rather avoid it
but if i need to eat it then so be it is
there a
supplement so i i have supplements make
me tense i try to avoid supplements
wherever possible i
i just have a hypothesis that isolating
things does not give you the same thing
as the real deal have you heard of nato
no never okay so natto is a japanese
bean curd that's fermented didn't you
just say beans are bad
yes yes i did um does the fermenting get
rid of the
bad part that's so that's a great
question so the question is where do you
get your natto from
and is there glyphosate in the nato nato
but that
was tons of k2 it's very popular in
japan as a breakfast food
um and so so vitamin k2 if you get it
through natto is fine but
again i only supplement what i need to i
know how important vitamin k2 is so i
eat a lot of cheeses hard cheeses
you can drink raw milk or eat a lot of
raw dairy
that has k2 i want to make sure because
i know how profound k2 is k2 is a
cofactor
in 17 known enzymes so without vitamin
k2 these enzymes are just sitting there
not doing anything
so the things that i want to supplement
i have my
bare minimum that i want to supplement i
want to supplement vitamin d in the
winter
i want to supplement vitamin k2 every
day and i want to supplement magnesium
because magnesium is being taken out of
our food chain by glyphosate
glycogen so how do i get magnesium and
k2 if i so
if i were going to supplement especially
those two things
um is there a um brand
that you recommend a dosage mine of
course uh do you
you have that was not a set up i had no
idea yeah
well i agree so i started talking about
this five years ago with my patients
and at first i thought it was crazy and
then i'd say are you taking a vitamin d
when you really look into vitamin d and
you see that you're not gonna find
people
with an evolutionary level of vitamin d
at 40 50 or higher
and cancer you don't see those things to
me it became obvious this is really
important
but my you know people are like oh you
know i drink milk i'm good i take a
multivitamin but
so i created my own vitamin line and i
branded it with my cartoon images
to make this understandable and
relatable because this is
literally at the core of our health how
we age
how children's jaws grow and develop and
this current pandemic
so making these vitamins memorable and
giving you know
giving someone idea and putting this
together easily is what i wanted to do
so i just created a vitamin line
and i was again supposed to be making a
candy bar with quest nutrition
that had vitamin d3 vitamin k2 um
magnesium
and mct oil and resistant starch so it
was basically
prebiotic it was kind of everything you
needed because if you want your child to
be intermittently fasting
you can't do that children are sugar
burners because they're eating goldfish
crackers
and all this all the sugar stuff so i
wanted to create a product
that was a chocolate cookie that was
very low in deuterium made up with a lot
of coconut because coconut is very low
in here and that's why coconut oil
is so healthy that had everything all in
one because it's too hard for people to
oh it's like it's too much to remember
they can remember one thing
so that's why i created this product
because this is the easiest thing in the
world eat this chocolate candy
that's i wanted to simplify this because
no one wants a chemistry set of vitamins
it's irritating annoying
i wanted to make this easier you know
you have to understand that
i suffered from the vitamin d3 and k2
deficiency at every stage of my life
this ruined my growth it ruined my
health it ruined my craniofacial
development
it ruined my sleep it ruined everything
and so i don't think
anyone is taking this seriously enough
the fact that people aren't
actively monitoring their vitamin d
level is bizarre
the idea that when you go to your doctor
the first thing they don't say is
hey let's get a vitamin d level on you
how much are you supplementing
the fact that that's not the
conversation is mind-blowing for the
last 80 years
this has been the most critical
information that anyone could ever do
why
it regulates aging it regulates the gut
microbiome and it regulates sleep
that's pretty powerful so to me this is
the most important thing
people who have different chemical
issues whether their bodies out of whack
raising the vitamin d level normalizes
the majority of those eight probably 80
to the general public will regain
complete health 20
will need specialized care you know
looking more into different diets and
more different supplements
but this is the easiest fix this is
what's bankrupting
the western world this is what's
bankrupting canada's
um socialized system medicine this is
what's destroying
our future here is a lack of
understanding that
most people's sleep is is destroyed by
this one thing
the gut microbiome is destroyed by this
one thing and then add in that
glyphosate
and everyone is getting these modern
chronic diseases which
are literally nothing other than a
vitamin d3
vitamin k2 now magnesium deficiency
and it's caused by glyphosate is taking
the minerals out of the soil
and it's killing the the microbiology so
the gut
the gut microbiome and the soil
microbiome they produce these different
vitamins that go into the actual
vegetables that you're growing
so when you grow something in soil that
has a lot of microbes
they are contributing to the health and
the nutritional component of
any vegetables that you grow so this
this is such a core understanding
when you you know as a dentist i'm
seeing these kids with little tiny
airways
and retruded jaws and very narrow
palates i discuss something called
long face syndrome this is improper
craniofacial growth and development
caused by mouth breathing because
children can't breathe through their
nose
and you know i have a lot of information
online about that but this one thing is
really profound because if children
don't sleep properly
they don't grow if anyone's listening to
this and you have a child that grinds
their teeth
snores or is having issues like that add
issues
they're not sleeping correctly and if
you don't go into the deep stages of
sleep
you don't release growth hormone so for
me i did not go through puberty until i
was 17.
wow i was stunned yeah i was stunted and
growth you know when you're 14 you know
you're 14
i was taking prednisone age 14 but i was
choking in my sleep prednisone
the primary medication for autoimmune
disease lowers your vitamin d level it
sequesters vitamin d so we're making the
syndrome worse
so there i was vitamin d deficient
taking this next medication
that was making everything worse
lowering my own vitamin d level
so it's the sleep cycle that's when you
repair it's the sleep cycle that's when
you grow
children grow and sleep so this one
thing this d3k2
basically omission from all of modern
medicine this is scandalous this is
this is at the core of almost every
modern chronic inflammatory disease
because when you go to your doctor
here's what happens you walk in and if
you're obese
and you have some health issues your
doctor says this is your fault you're a
glutton you don't care about yourself
you need to eat better you need to
exercise more but if you're thin
and you have a health issue it's genetic
so it's still always your fault
and that's what my issue was i had a
genetic syndrome
and it wasn't genetic it was
environmental with a genetic component
because when you when you basically
decrease the overall health of an animal
everyone's going to break down along the
lines of their own genetic
predisposition
eastern european jews get chronic
inflammatory bowel disease that's part
of our genetic breakdown
could be one or two different different
proteins that are not getting made just
because
you know um i i you don't have a broad
range and this is the funny part too is
that
western price is saying hey guys this is
the environment these guys are saying no
keep the bloodlines pure we know this
that the most
different diverse connection of mother
and father the more different you are
genetically
the healthier that you are when you are
an inbred population
you have too many of the same genes and
chromosomes when you have a completely
you know mixed-race marriage the child
has a much greater genetic variability
and that will give you greater health
you know that's why the you know these
these small populations
have a lot of healthy um you know
eastern european juice have a lot of
health issues that are related to that
small gene pool
which is fascinating now the other thing
related to that is we rely
on our gut microbiome they produce um
ninety percent
their their dna out numbers are is a
hundred hundred to one so
you have all these great genes that we
use but the
gut microbiomes dna outnumbers ours a
hundred to one so what that means is
that we're relying on the chemicals that
they make
much more profoundly than we rely on
what we are making from our own actual
cells
and that's why the microbiome is the
most important thing
and it's it's crazy because this
deuterium and glyphosate
this is killing our microbiome it's
killing the the bees and the butterflies
got microbiome that's why the bees are
dying out from glyphosate
but it's also killing the soils
microbiome and this is literally killing
the diversity
of mother nature this is killing the the
all the different species on this planet
and this is this right so give give
people in like a quick 30 60 seconds
i love like you know what what can
people do a quick
primer on diet supplementation sun
exposure if that's part of it
what does that ideal life look like sure
so i like to consider
that humans have become disconnected
from our natural habitat and the
elements of life
air earth fire and water okay so fire is
the radiation of the sun humans are
solar powered animals we take a charge
off the sun
you need to get sunlight on a regular
basis without sunglasses
because sunlight in your eyes and even
around the skin around your eyes tells
your brain all kinds of signals
i only wear sunglasses inside a car okay
so you want to manage your radiation
i call it radiation rules i wear blue
blockers at night because blue light
destroys melatonin
and i will do not wear any sunglasses
during the day okay so that's
fire earth is what you need no no
sunscreen i assume
no sunscreen that's a long discussion
but no i can't i can't advise it so
we'll talk about there are natural
sunscreen that no one's making because
you can't patent them and no one's
willing to do the research and i have
connections to the scientists who can
make these products
taking a vitamin d molecule and radiate
it and putting that on your skin that
protects you
there's something called lumestral which
is a natural sunscreen it's what happens
to vitamin d when it gets irradiated
it turns into lumestral so these are
products that
you know i've been trying to get my
information out for five years people
it's hard it's hard to get out there so
we go to earth it's what you eat
and how you eat it number one they
cannot spray glyphosate on grass
anything that eats grass is low in
glyphosate
anything that doesn't isn't coming from
a processed food is healthy so
nose to tail organ meats and then
intermittent fasting narrow your eating
window do not eat throughout the day
you're stressing your mitochondria
constantly feeding it to tearing it
never gets a chance to heal itself
and then we go to water water is easy
but water the sunlight charges your body
so being in the sun helps keep you
healthy
in the same way that plants grow from
photosynthesis and the last is air
breathing in sleep the whole insomnia
sleep apnea syndrome is a lack of oxygen
due to the airway collapsing if you
don't get enough oxygen your brain is
going to set an alarm
hey wake up when given the choice
between sleep and breathing your body is
going to choose
breathing every time so it's good for
the breasts
it's going to destroy your sleep if your
sleep is destroyed
you can't heal so so those are basically
i i call it like you know reconnecting
to mother nature we are hunter gathers
our biology is that of a hunter gatherer
but we're living in this modern world we
need to really emulate the behavior of
our ancestors
and replace those missing elements of
life actively so i say
if you haven't checked your sleep by
having a sleep study you're over the age
of 50 you're making a mistake
having you know sleep is the most
important thing you can do and it's
really not on people's radar
everyone wants to like you know have a
comfortable bed and apparently if you
raise your bed you stop snoring
snoring is a vitamin d deficiency and
children who snore will stop within two
to three days
of dosing the right amount of vitamin d
that quickly
yeah i i heard you say once that um this
is a neurological problem
and the way that you alleviate that is
with vitamin d
and i thought well that's amazing and
you the way you explained all the
different ways that we can be
vitamin d deficient um i had spent a lot
of time researching you and i came into
this thinking that you know
it's largely a case of sun exposure but
hearing all the ways that we can sort of
[__] up our bodies ability
to take in the the sun that we're
actually being exposed to
um is is amazing well that's at the core
of epigenetics because genetics is the
genes you inherited epigenetics is how
you activate those genes and what is in
control of that
the environment the environment is the
diet that you eat
the radiation you're exposed to and the
activities that you do it's as simple as
that
humans are sensors for the environment
because we evolved here and our bodies
are so highly adaptive
that we change on an hourly basis
depending on what we put into our
systems or the life that we're exposed
to
we need to pay much closer attention to
what these signals coming into us
are and i kind of will go back to the
vegan vegetarian thing
they're taking information that
ultimately is being funded by companies
like monsanto
the vegan movement is highly funded by
them because they benefit
that's really the truth and so this goes
back to
the idea that when these sensory in the
sensory inputs are coming in
you can't fool your body so if you're
getting this false information on what's
healthy
you can really damage yourself and that
information you know it used to be that
as a hunter gatherer going through the
forest if you didn't pay attention to a
twig snapping or seeing a shadow move
you could be eaten by a predator nothing
has changed in the modern world
if you're listening to the wrong sources
of information and doing the wrong
things
you're going to die it's just going to
be a long slow death from chronic
inflammatory disease
and that's really it this is epigenetics
really far advanced
and the hard part for me is this so
simple there's such simple things that
people can do
and incorporate into their life that
could have a massive effect
mike drop dr gould thank you man this
this was awesome i would love to have
you back at some point there are many
many things that we didn't even
begin to touch on um this was awesome
dude thank you so much
uh hopefully we can help get that
message out and uh
yeah man i really really appreciate it
guys uh where where can they find you by
the way
so um as a dentist i practice manhattan
beach modern american dentistry
um my instagram is modern underscore
hunter underscore gathers my website
modernhuntergathers.com or my name joel
gould
and in this world you know it's hard
like trying to get followers because
people don't necessarily
want to you know i've tried to approach
some podcast and they go we don't you
don't have enough followers i'm like
i'm a 30-year clinician doctor i have
information you should want to hear
but so anyone wants to follow me please
do and um
you can get a hold of me through my
websites awesome man
well guys trust me like that this is the
tip of the iceberg for him he has so
much rad information when i was
researching i was like this is gonna be
awesome
uh you did not disappoint man i really
enjoyed it so guys dive into his world
and if you haven't already of course be
sure to subscribe here and until next
time my friends be
legendary take care
thank you guys so much for watching and
being a part of this community if you
haven't already
be sure to subscribe you're going to get
weekly videos on building a growth
mindset cultivating grit
and unlocking your full potential